Jing's Plasmid Transformation
==========## Preparation of competent cells 1. Dilute 0.2-0.5 ml o/n culture of the strain to be transformed into 8 ml LB broth. Grow to an OD<sub>650</sub> of 0.5-0.6 and chill on ice.2. Transfer the culture to a Corex tube, balance and centrifuge at 6000 rpm for 6 mins at 4°C in the Sorvall SS34 rotor (or in the similar IEC rotor).3. Resuspend the cells in 0.4-1.0 ml ice-cold 50 mM CaCl<sub>2</sub>.4. Leave on ice for anything from 10 mins to 6 hours.Can freeze at -80°C for long term storage.## Transformation 1. For each transformation, pipette 0.2 ml of competent cells into a sterile 1.5 ml Eppendorf tube or Corex glass tube and leave on ice. For ligation a large amount of competent cells is used to improve transformation efficiency.2. Add 1-2 µl of pure plasmid or 5-10 µl of a ligation mix.3. Leave on ice for 20 mins. (10 mins if you are not worried about the efficiency)4. Heat shock by placing the tubes in a 42°C static water bath for 2 mins and then putting immediately back onto ice. Leave for 2-5 mins.5. Add 0.2-1.0 ml of LB broth and incubate from 10-30 mins at 37°C in a static water bath.**NB:** if using the temperature-sensitive plasmid pHSG415 or derivatives, incubate at 30°C.6. Spin the cells down at 6000rpm for 5mins in the Sorvall or IEC (Corex tubes), or for 2 mins at LOW speed in a microfuge for Eppendorf tubes-(1 min at full speed).7. Pour off the supernatant and resuspend the cells in 0.1-0.2 ml fresh broth.8. Plate cells on LB agar supplemented with the appropriate antibiotic (if using lacZ, complementation to detect recombinations, add 50 µl of IPTG and 50 µl of X-Gal to the plate).Plate by either:  * Pipetting the sample with a 0.2 ml pipette and streaking out the cells using the same pipette as an inoculating loop, or  * Pipetting the sample with a Gilson and spreading the plate with a glass spreader flame-sterilised with ethanol.9. Incubate overnight at 37°C (30°C for pHSG415 and derivatives)