Determination of the Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) – Broth microdilution method 1.	Prepare Mueller-Hinton broth (MHB) media;2.	Prepare an overnight culture of bacteria (3-5 mL of MHB);3.	Incubate 18 hours at 37ºC with agitation (approx. 200 rpm);4.	Prepare the solutions of the compounds to be tested (inhibitors, antibiotics, etc…); 5.	Prepare the 96 wells plates as described:	  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;SC   GC   Test wells (diluted compounds)|	|1	|2	|3	|4	|5	|6	|7	|8	|9	|10	|11	|12	|Compound|---|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:A	|	|	|	|	|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |FP1B	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|FP2C	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|FP3D	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|FP4E	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|FP5F	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|FP6G	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|FP7H	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|	|FP8Note: 	- In each plate it can be tested 8 compounds/strain;- Column 1: 100μL MHB (sterility control - SC);- Column 2: 100μL MHB + 5μL bacterial strain (growth control - GC);- Columns 12-3: 100μL of compounds diluted in MHB + 5μL bacterial strain diluted (test wells)6.	Add 100μL MHB to all the wells of the microplate;7.	Add 100μL of the compound solution (at a stock 2x higher than the concentration you need on the well of the microplate) to the wells of column 12;8.	Homogenize the media on these wells with the multichannel pipetting up and down approx. 3 times;9.	Take 100μL to the next wells (column 11). Repeat the homogenization procedure and continue the dilution of the compounds sequentially until column 3;10.	Discard the final 100μL from column 3 (at the end of this step each well of the columns 12 to 3 should have 100μL of final volume);11.	Inoculate all the wells (from columns 12 to 2) with 5μL of the bacterial culture adjusted to McFarland 0,5 standard; **Note:** When working with an overnight culture, the dilutions to perform to obtain an equivalent to McFarland 0,5 standard are the following: take 50μL of the overnight culture into 4.95 mL of Phosphate Buffered Saline (PBS) solution, vortex well. From this, perform a second dilution taking 500μL into 4.5 mL of PBS. Vortex the diluted culture well and transfer it into a reservoir. With a multichannel pipette inoculate 5μL into each well of the microplate;12.	Incubate the plate at 37°C (bacteria dependent) for 18 hours (CLSI guidelines) using the Omnilog system;13.	After this time, take the plate out and perform determination of the minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC) (if necessary or applicable).14.	Analyze the results. The MIC is defined as the minimum concentration of compound were no “visible” growth (in the case of eyeball readings) was obtained.**Note 1:** The incubation of the plates for MIC determination can be done in alternative in a standard 37ºC incubator. After these time you can record the results by eyeball or by reading the optical density using a plate reader (e.g.: Multiskan; Thermo Scientific).**Note 2:** The template described above is only exemplificative. For each assay, the strains or the compounds used in each row can be changed.Determination of the Minimum Bactericidal Concentration (MBC) – Broth microdilution method 1.	Prepare a 96-wells plate with 100μL MHB in each well;2.	Use the hand-held, stainless steel replicator and flame it before starting the protocol to assure sterility;3.	From the plate used for the MIC determination transfer the inoculums of each well using the hand-held, stainless steel replicator to a new plate with fresh media (prepared in 1.);4.	Incubate plate for 18 hours at 37ºC;5.	“Read” the results by eyeball. The MBC is considered the minimum concentration of compound were no bacterial growth is obtained.Additional infos:**MHB** – Mueller Hinton Broth (Reference CM0405; Oxoid)**PBS** – Phosphate Buffered Saline (Reference: P4417-100TAB; Sigma)**CLSI** – Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute