Bacteria motility assays
====##Note for SS assays:
You’d better start the experiment in the early morning, because there’s an *8 hour* time point. You should *prepare the plates the night before*. After pouring the plates, spread them out on bench to dry o/n. *Don’t stack them*. Before use, paper dry the plate tops.When incubating the plates, *don’t stack them*, and *don’t leave them on the bottom of the incubator*. (Incubator bottom is not very well temperature controlled.)##Part-A Swim assay1.	Prepare culture plate (LB broth with 0.3% agar).2.	Streak strain on TSA agar plate to get single colony. Use Salmonella  enterica serova Typhimurium DT104 13348 as positive control and blank overnight culture as negative control.3.	Pick one single colony and grow in 5 ml of LB broth overnight at 37 ºC.4.	Stab inoculates overnight culture in the culture plate. (touch the bottom)5.	Incubate the plate at 37 ºC for 8h. (Plan well before start, or you will end up finishing late!)6.	Measure the visible colony spread on the agar (in mm) with a ruler.##Part-B Swarm assay
1.	Prepare motility plate (LB broth, with 0.6% agar and 0.5% glucose. Glucose is added after agar is autoclaved).2.	Streak strain on TSA agar plate to get single colony. Use **Salmonella enterica serova** Typhimurium DT104 1348 as positive control, and blank overnight culture as negative control.3.	Pick one single colony and grow in 5 ml of LB broth overnight at 37 ºC.4.	Spot 1 µl of the cell suspension directly onto a motility plate. Incubate the plate overnight at 37 ºC.5.	Record the visible colony spread on the agar.##EPS production
1.	Streak strain on TSA agar plate to get single colony.2.	Pick one single colony and grow in 5 ml of LB broth at 37 ºC for 18h.3.	Transfer 1 ml of overnight culture to 100 ml of M9 minimal medium (6 g/L Na<sub>2</sub>HPO<sub>4</sub>, 3 g/L KH<sub>2</sub>PO<sub>4</sub>, 0.5 g/L NaCl, 1 g/L NH<sub>4</sub>Cl, 2 mM MgSO<sub>4</sub>, and 0.4% glucose (underlined substances can be filtered sterilised.)) and incubate overnight at 37 ºC.4.	Centrifuge 30 ml culture at 2,235 g for 10 min.5.	Observe the cell pellets. If there is only cell pellet, no EPS is formed; if there is milk superior, there is EPS formed; Or there could be a mixture of both.